Equipment Rules
  1) all tables must be slate and have 
  2) minimum table size is 7'
  3) tables must not have a significant "roll" that would help a player


  Tournament rules
  1) When racking the 1,2 and 3 balls must be on the corners
  2) The lowest number ball must be struck first or it is a foul.
  3) Any foul ends the current rack you are playing.
  4) If you make a good hit and scratch then all balls made with that hit will be counted.
  5) If you don't make a ball on the break you have two options. 1) Play the cue ball
      from where it lies with no penalty 2) Take ball in hand and take a 2 point penalty.
  6) If you scratch on the break you must shoot from behind the scratch line
      and it is a 2 point penalty. If the object ball you are shooting at is behind
      this line then you must shoot past the line and come back to hit it.
      If any part of the ball is touching the scratch line then it is considered behind the line.
  7) Anytime a ball comes off the table (other than a legal jump) it will end the rack.
  8) Anyone caught intentionally cheating will be banned from any future tournaments.  
  9) At the beginning of your match please state your name and where you are from.
 10) A person whether it be the shooter or someone else must remain in the view of
       the camera at all times
 11) We encourage, but don't require, having music playing in the background.
 


  General Rules
  1) Your recording device must be set up to view the entire table and at least 3' or more 
       on all sides.
  2) We will give all players a handicap after the first tournament based on your match.
  3) Any player that is playing for the first time can have a handicap. Please see the 
      Handicap Conversion page.
  4) Anyone caught "sandbagging" will lose all handicaps for a time frame that 10ball.org
      decides.
  5) The 10ball.org review board will have all final say on rules violations and penalties.
  6) Anyone winning money will have a reduced or removed handicap for the period of 
      up too three tournaments.
